CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Developing the JavaScript SDK

## Prerequisites

The JavaScript SDK requires Node.js 18.

It can be useful to install `nvm` and run `nvm use` to select the right node version if you have multiple node versions installed.

Install package dependencies with `npm install`.

## Tests

Run the tests for the SDK with `npm test` (in the `sdk` directory).

Run integration tests with `npm run integration-test` (in the `sdk` directory, requires Docker).

See [.circleci/config.yml] for all tests that run for CI.

## Samples

Each sample under `samples` can be run locally. See their READMEs for details.

## TCK

To run the Kalix TCK, see [tck/README.md].

## Docs

Build docs in the `docs/` directory with `make`. Note that it requires a docker daemon running.

## Formatting

Auto-update formatting with:

    npm run prettier-format

## Local development

### Create app with local SDK to run it locally

To use the local SDK to be tested in local you can run the following from the root directory of this project. Please look at known issues first.

    ```
    nvm use 18
    ./bin/create-local-dependencies.sh
    ```

and then add those to any sample. For example, go to samples/js/js-valueentity-shopping-cart and execute the following. Bear in mind `$KALIXJSSDK` needs to point to `kalix-javascript-sdk` folder.

    ```
    export KALIX_NPMJS_CODEGEN_BINARY="$KALIXJSSDK/codegen/js-gen-cli/target/native-image/kalix-codegen-js"
    nvm use 18
    npm install --save \
                "$KALIXJSSDK/sdk/kalix-io-kalix-javascript-sdk-0.0.0.tgz" \
                "$KALIXJSSDK/npm-js/kalix-scripts/kalix-io-kalix-scripts-0.0.0.tgz" \
                "$KALIXJSSDK/testkit/kalix-io-testkit-0.0.0.tgz"
    npm install
    npm run build
    ```

if you set PROXY_SNAPSHOT_DIRECTORY pointing to your local kalix-proxy then you can use your proxy.

    ```
    export PROXY_SNAPSHOT_DIRECTORY="/path/to/my/kalix-proxy"
    ```

Otherwise of the default that is downloaded from https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/kalix/kalix-$module-protocol/$framework_version/kalix-$module-protocol-$framework_version.zip

### Create docker image with local SDK to run it in Kubernetes

To create a Docker image of a sample app using your local SDK you need the following. 
First, you need to create the local SDK with its dependencies. You can do this as follows. Please look at known issues first.

    ```
    nvm use 18
    ./bin/create-local-dependencies.sh
    ```

Once these are generated - SDK, testkit and kalix-scripts - you need to add them to the Docker image. That is, to the Dockerfile. For example, go to samples/js/js-valueentity-shopping-cart and change the Dockerfile from line 9 to 16 as follow. 

    # Set the working directory
    WORKDIR /home/node

    ENV KALIX_NPMJS_CODEGEN_BINARY="/tmp/kalix-codegen-js.bin"

    # Install app dependencies
    COPY package*.json ./
    RUN curl https://repo.lightbend.com/raw/kalix/versions/1.0.2/kalix-codegen-js-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu -o /tmp/kalix-codegen-js.bin
    RUN chmod 755 /tmp/kalix-codegen-js.bin

    COPY kalix-io-kalix-scripts-0.0.0.tgz kalix-io-kalix-scripts-0.0.0.tgz
    COPY kalix-io-kalix-javascript-sdk-0.0.0.tgz kalix-io-kalix-javascript-sdk-0.0.0.tgz
    COPY kalix-io-testkit-0.0.0.tgz kalix-io-testkit-0.0.0.tgz

    RUN npm install 

    # Copy sources and build the app

These changes use the published codegen client, that is, `kalix-codegen-js.bin`. Version 1.0.2. You can change the version as you like. For this to work, you  need to bring the SDK, testkit, and kalix-scripts into the base of a sample project. You can do this by running the following in the root of that sample project. Bear in mind `$KALIXJSSDK` needs to point to the `kalix-javascript-sdk` folder.

    cp "$KALIXJSSDK/sdk/kalix-io-kalix-javascript-sdk-0.0.0.tgz" . 
    cp "$KALIXJSSDK/npm-js/kalix-scripts/kalix-io-kalix-scripts-0.0.0.tgz" .
    cp "$KALIXJSSDK/testkit/kalix-io-testkit-0.0.0.tgz" .

Now you can create the Docker image of an app and deploy it to your kalix project. Don't forget that you need to be logged in to your kalix project first.  

    ```
    npm run deploy
    ```

### Known issues

    Invoking Kalix codegen with command: /Users/francisco/Git/kalix-javascript-sdk/samples/js/js-replicated-entity-shopping-cart/node_modules/@kalix-io/kalix-scripts/bin/kalix-codegen-js.bin --proto-source-dir ./proto --source-dir ./src --generated-source-dir ./lib/generated --test-source-dir ./test
    Inspecting proto file descriptor for Kalix code generation...
    Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: kalix.Annotations

This happens when you generate the codegen with Java 17 instead of 11 and then you run `npm run build` on one of the `samples`.

    npm ERR! code 1
    npm ERR! path /Users/francisco/Git/kalix-javascript-sdk/sdk
    npm ERR! command failed
    npm ERR! command sh -c bin/prepare.sh

This can happens when you run `./bin/create-local-dependencies`. This is because `sdk/bin/prepare.sh` has `*` after `echo "Using snapshot of proxy and sdk protocols from '$PROXY_SNAPSHOT_DIRECTORY'"`. In iOS you need to remove the asteriscs in the two lines below.

Commit message:

Switch to "Kalix Runtime" (#525)
* Use as Runtime image name

* Rename env variable for local testing

* Change labels and text

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Developing the JavaScript SDK

## Prerequisites

The JavaScript SDK requires Node.js 18.

It can be useful to install `nvm` and run `nvm use` to select the right node version if you have multiple node versions installed.

Install package dependencies with `npm install`.

## Tests

Run the tests for the SDK with `npm test` (in the `sdk` directory).

Run integration tests with `npm run integration-test` (in the `sdk` directory, requires Docker).

See [.circleci/config.yml] for all tests that run for CI.

## Samples

Each sample under `samples` can be run locally. See their READMEs for details.

## TCK

To run the Kalix TCK, see [tck/README.md].

## Docs

Build docs in the `docs/` directory with `make`. Note that it requires a docker daemon running.

## Formatting

Auto-update formatting with:

    npm run prettier-format

## Local development

### Create app with local SDK to run it locally

To use the local SDK to be tested in local you can run the following from the root directory of this project. Please look at known issues first.

    ```
    nvm use 18
    ./bin/create-local-dependencies.sh
    ```

and then add those to any sample. For example, go to samples/js/js-valueentity-shopping-cart and execute the following. Bear in mind `$KALIXJSSDK` needs to point to `kalix-javascript-sdk` folder.

    ```
    export KALIX_NPMJS_CODEGEN_BINARY="$KALIXJSSDK/codegen/js-gen-cli/target/native-image/kalix-codegen-js"
    nvm use 18
    npm install --save \
                "$KALIXJSSDK/sdk/kalix-io-kalix-javascript-sdk-0.0.0.tgz" \
                "$KALIXJSSDK/npm-js/kalix-scripts/kalix-io-kalix-scripts-0.0.0.tgz" \
                "$KALIXJSSDK/testkit/kalix-io-testkit-0.0.0.tgz"
    npm install
    npm run build
    ```

if you set RUNTIME_SNAPSHOT_DIRECTORY pointing to your local kalix-runtime then you can use your Kalix Runtime.

    ```
    export RUNTIME_SNAPSHOT_DIRECTORY="/path/to/my/kalix-runtime"
    ```

Otherwise of the default that is downloaded from https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/kalix/kalix-$module-protocol/$framework_version/kalix-$module-protocol-$framework_version.zip

### Create docker image with local SDK to run it in Kubernetes

To create a Docker image of a sample app using your local SDK you need the following. 
First, you need to create the local SDK with its dependencies. You can do this as follows. Please look at known issues first.

    ```
    nvm use 18
    ./bin/create-local-dependencies.sh
    ```

Once these are generated - SDK, testkit and kalix-scripts - you need to add them to the Docker image. That is, to the Dockerfile. For example, go to samples/js/js-valueentity-shopping-cart and change the Dockerfile from line 9 to 16 as follow. 

    # Set the working directory
    WORKDIR /home/node

    ENV KALIX_NPMJS_CODEGEN_BINARY="/tmp/kalix-codegen-js.bin"

    # Install app dependencies
    COPY package*.json ./
    RUN curl https://repo.lightbend.com/raw/kalix/versions/1.0.2/kalix-codegen-js-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu -o /tmp/kalix-codegen-js.bin
    RUN chmod 755 /tmp/kalix-codegen-js.bin

    COPY kalix-io-kalix-scripts-0.0.0.tgz kalix-io-kalix-scripts-0.0.0.tgz
    COPY kalix-io-kalix-javascript-sdk-0.0.0.tgz kalix-io-kalix-javascript-sdk-0.0.0.tgz
    COPY kalix-io-testkit-0.0.0.tgz kalix-io-testkit-0.0.0.tgz

    RUN npm install 

    # Copy sources and build the app

These changes use the published codegen client, that is, `kalix-codegen-js.bin`. Version 1.0.2. You can change the version as you like. For this to work, you  need to bring the SDK, testkit, and kalix-scripts into the base of a sample project. You can do this by running the following in the root of that sample project. Bear in mind `$KALIXJSSDK` needs to point to the `kalix-javascript-sdk` folder.

    cp "$KALIXJSSDK/sdk/kalix-io-kalix-javascript-sdk-0.0.0.tgz" . 
    cp "$KALIXJSSDK/npm-js/kalix-scripts/kalix-io-kalix-scripts-0.0.0.tgz" .
    cp "$KALIXJSSDK/testkit/kalix-io-testkit-0.0.0.tgz" .

Now you can create the Docker image of an app and deploy it to your kalix project. Don't forget that you need to be logged in to your kalix project first.  

    ```
    npm run deploy
    ```

### Known issues

    Invoking Kalix codegen with command: /Users/francisco/Git/kalix-javascript-sdk/samples/js/js-replicated-entity-shopping-cart/node_modules/@kalix-io/kalix-scripts/bin/kalix-codegen-js.bin --proto-source-dir ./proto --source-dir ./src --generated-source-dir ./lib/generated --test-source-dir ./test
    Inspecting proto file descriptor for Kalix code generation...
    Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: kalix.Annotations

This happens when you generate the codegen with Java 17 instead of 11 and then you run `npm run build` on one of the `samples`.

    npm ERR! code 1
    npm ERR! path /Users/francisco/Git/kalix-javascript-sdk/sdk
    npm ERR! command failed
    npm ERR! command sh -c bin/prepare.sh

This can happens when you run `./bin/create-local-dependencies`. This is because `sdk/bin/prepare.sh` has `*` after `echo "Using snapshot of Runtime and sdk protocols from '$RUNTIME_SNAPSHOT_DIRECTORY'"`. In iOS you need to remove the asterisks in the two lines below.
