samples/js/valueentity-counter/README.md, before:

# 

## Designing

While designing your service it is useful to read [designing services](https://docs.kalix.io/designing/index.html)

## Developing

This project has a functioning service ready to adapt and
extend it it may be useful to read up on [developing services](https://docs.kalix.io/developing/index.html)
and in particular the [JavaScript section](https://docs.kalix.io/javascript/index.html)

## Prerequisites

No additional tooling is required for local development. To build and deploy to a cluster:

- Docker; see https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/
- Kalix CLI (`kalix`); see https://docs.kalix.io/kalix/install-kalix.html

## Building

To build, at a minimum you need to generate and process sources, particularly when using an IDE.
A convenience is compile your project:

```
npm install
npm run build
```

## Testing

Basic skeleton unit tests for each method in each service will be generated by the `build` phase, but these will need to be fleshed out with assertions as behavior is implemented.
Mocha is the testing framework employed, and Chai is used for assertions. To execute the tests:

```
npm run test
```

These tests leverage the mock entity classes provided by `@kalix-io/testkit`. These classes mimic the minimal required machinery to execute commands and handle events against a single entity for simple unit testing. Integration tests, which run a local Kalix development environment, can also be written using `@kalix-io/testkit`.

## Integration Test

The integration tests are manually written and can be executed by running:

```
npm run integration-test
```

## Running Locally

In order to run your application locally, you must run the Kalix proxy. The included `docker-compose` file contains the configuration required to run the proxy for a locally running application.
It also contains the configuration to start a local Google Pub/Sub emulator that the Kalix proxy will connect to.
To start the proxy, run the following command from this directory:

```
docker-compose up
```

To start the application locally, use the following commands:

> Be sure to have performed `npm install` for the first time!

```
npm run build && npm run start
```

With both the proxy and your application running, any defined endpoints should be available at `http://localhost:9000`. In addition to the defined gRPC interface, each method has a corresponding HTTP endpoint. Unless configured otherwise (see [Transcoding HTTP](https://docs.kalix.io/javascript/proto.html#_transcoding_http)), this endpoint accepts POST requests at the path `/[package].[entity name]/[method]`.

For example, using `curl`:

```
> curl -XPOST -H "Content-Type: application/json" localhost:9000/com.example.CounterService/GetCurrentCounter -d '{"counterId": "foo"}'
The command handler for `GetCurrentCounter` is not implemented, yet
```

For example, given [`grpcurl`](https://github.com/fullstorydev/grpcurl):

```
> grpcurl -plaintext -d '{"counterId": "foo"}' localhost:9000 com.example.CounterService/GetCurrentCounter
ERROR:
  Code: Unknown
  Message: The command handler for `GetCurrentCounter` is not implemented, yet
```

> Note: The failure is to be expected if you have not yet provided an implementation of
> `GetCurrentCounter` in your entity.

## Deploying

To deploy your service, install the `kalix` CLI as documented in
[Setting up a local development environment](https://docs.kalix.io/getting-started/set-up-development-env.html)
and configure a Docker Registry to upload your docker image to.

You will need to update the `config.dockerImage` property in the `package.json` and refer to
[Configuring registries](https://docs.kalix.io/projects/container-registries.html)
for more information on how to make your docker image available to Kalix.

Finally you can or use the [Kalix Console](https://console.kalix.io)
to create a project and then deploy your service into the project either by using `npm run deploy`,
through the `kalix` CLI or via the web interface. When using `npm run deploy`, npm will also
conveniently package and publish your docker image prior to deployment.

Commit message:

Use Runtime in docs and samples (#526)
* Use Runtime in documentation
* Use Runtime in samples

samples/js/valueentity-counter/README.md, after:

# 

## Designing

While designing your service it is useful to read [designing services](https://docs.kalix.io/designing/index.html)

## Developing

This project has a functioning service ready to adapt and
extend it it may be useful to read up on [developing services](https://docs.kalix.io/developing/index.html)
and in particular the [JavaScript section](https://docs.kalix.io/javascript/index.html)

## Prerequisites

No additional tooling is required for local development. To build and deploy to a cluster:

- Docker; see https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/
- Kalix CLI (`kalix`); see https://docs.kalix.io/kalix/install-kalix.html

## Building

To build, at a minimum you need to generate and process sources, particularly when using an IDE.
A convenience is compile your project:

```
npm install
npm run build
```

## Testing

Basic skeleton unit tests for each method in each service will be generated by the `build` phase, but these will need to be fleshed out with assertions as behavior is implemented.
Mocha is the testing framework employed, and Chai is used for assertions. To execute the tests:

```
npm run test
```

These tests leverage the mock entity classes provided by `@kalix-io/testkit`. These classes mimic the minimal required machinery to execute commands and handle events against a single entity for simple unit testing. Integration tests, which run a local Kalix development environment, can also be written using `@kalix-io/testkit`.

## Integration Test

The integration tests are manually written and can be executed by running:

```
npm run integration-test
```

## Running Locally

In order to run your application locally, you must run the Kalix Runtime. The included `docker-compose` file contains the configuration required to run the Runtime for a locally running application.
It also contains the configuration to start a local Google Pub/Sub emulator that the Kalix Runtime will connect to.

To start the Kalix Runtime, run the following command from this directory:

```shell
docker compose up
```

To start the application locally, use the following commands:

> Be sure to have performed `npm install` for the first time!

```
npm run build && npm run start
```

With both the Kalix Runtime and your application running, any defined endpoints should be available at `http://localhost:9000`. In addition to the defined gRPC interface, each method has a corresponding HTTP endpoint. Unless configured otherwise (see [Transcoding HTTP](https://docs.kalix.io/javascript/proto.html#_transcoding_http)), this endpoint accepts POST requests at the path `/[package].[entity name]/[method]`.

For example, using `curl`:

```shell
curl -XPOST -H "Content-Type: application/json" localhost:9000/com.example.CounterService/GetCurrentCounter -d '{"counterId": "foo"}'
The command handler for `GetCurrentCounter` is not implemented, yet
```

For example, given [`grpcurl`](https://github.com/fullstorydev/grpcurl):

```
> grpcurl -plaintext -d '{"counterId": "foo"}' localhost:9000 com.example.CounterService/GetCurrentCounter
ERROR:
  Code: Unknown
  Message: The command handler for `GetCurrentCounter` is not implemented, yet
```

> Note: The failure is to be expected if you have not yet provided an implementation of
> `GetCurrentCounter` in your entity.

## Deploying

To deploy your service, install the `kalix` CLI as documented in
[Setting up a local development environment](https://docs.kalix.io/getting-started/set-up-development-env.html)
and configure a Docker Registry to upload your docker image to.

You will need to update the `config.dockerImage` property in the `package.json` and refer to
[Configuring registries](https://docs.kalix.io/projects/container-registries.html)
for more information on how to make your docker image available to Kalix.

Finally you can or use the [Kalix Console](https://console.kalix.io)
to create a project and then deploy your service into the project either by using `npm run deploy`,
through the `kalix` CLI or via the web interface. When using `npm run deploy`, npm will also
conveniently package and publish your docker image prior to deployment.
