docs/src/modules/javascript/pages/call-another-service.adoc, before:

= Calling other services

== Kalix services

In some cases it is useful to call a component in another service, for example interacting with multiple entities or actions, aggregating their return values or performing a multi-step workflow. xref:forwarding.adoc[Forwards] and side-effects allow us to trigger other services but can't compose or transform the results.

Calling other Kalix services in the same project from an Action is done by invoking them over gRPC much like how an external client would. The service is however identified only by the name it has been deployed as, Kalix takes care of routing requests to the service and keeping the data safe by encrypting the connection for us.

In this sample we will show an action that does two sequential calls to the xref:value-entity.adoc[Value Entity Counter] service, deployed with the service name "counter".

We start by adding the public API of the counter to the `src/main/proto` directory of our project.

Since the proto file of a Kalix service contains annotations that cause the SDK code generation to generate services, and we only want to consume the service, we need to start by removing the annotations.

Copy the API definition proto file from the other service into the `proto` directory but remove all `kalix.service` option blocks as well as all other Kalix annotations and the `import "kalix/annotations.proto"` from it.

This is how the counter descriptor looks with all annotations removed:

[source,protobuf,indent=0]
.proto/com/example/counter_api.proto
----
include::example$js-doc-snippets/proto/com/example/counter_api.proto[tag=other-service-api]
----

The proto-js tool will now generate a client for the service in `lib/generated/proto.js` when we compile the project.

Creating an instance of the generated client is done through the `.grpc` object on the action.
In our delegating service implementation:

[source,javascript,indent=0]
.src/main/java/com/example/delegatingservice.js
----
include::example$js-doc-snippets/src/delegatingservice.js[tag=delegating-action]
----
<1> Include the `proto` file of the other service in the action service descriptors.
<2> Create the client using the provided creators to get async methods. Defaults to a cleartext connection as TLS is handled transparently for us.
<3> Use the name that the other Kalix service was deployed as, in this case `counter` and port `80`.
<4> We can now call the various methods on the other service with their method names directly on the client. The calls return promises so we can use `await/async` to interact with them.

== External gRPC services

Calling a Kalix service in another project, or an arbitrary external gRPC service is done the same way as described above, with the difference that it will use the full public hostname of the service and TLS/HTTPS to encrypt the connection.

[source,javascript,indent=0]
.src/main/java/com/example/delegatingservice.js
----
include::example$js-doc-snippets/src/delegatingservice.js[tag=public-grpc]
----
<1> Import `grpc-js`, to provide credentials when creating the client.
<2> Create the client using the provided creators to get async methods.
<3> Use the full public hostname of the service.
<4> Enable TLS/HTTPS to encrypt the connection.

Commit message:

Acl support (#355)
* cross Kalix service auth headers passed along to clients
* breaking API change: clients can no longer be created before preStart has been called triggered by discovery
* APIs for inspecting principal
* default acl for an entire service (docs only)
* testkit support for fake principal

docs/src/modules/javascript/pages/call-another-service.adoc, after:

= Calling other services

== Kalix services

In some cases it is useful to call a component in another service, for example interacting with multiple entities or actions, aggregating their return values or performing a multi-step workflow. xref:forwarding.adoc[Forwards] and side-effects allow us to trigger other services but can't compose or transform the results.

Calling other Kalix services in the same project from an Action is done by invoking them over gRPC much like how an external client would. The service is however identified only by the name it has been deployed as, Kalix takes care of routing requests to the service and keeping the data safe by encrypting the connection for us.

In this sample we will show an action that does two sequential calls to the xref:value-entity.adoc[Value Entity Counter] service, deployed with the service name "counter".

We start by adding the public API of the counter to the `src/main/proto` directory of our project.

Since the proto file of a Kalix service contains annotations that cause the SDK code generation to generate services, and we only want to consume the service, we need to start by removing the annotations.

Copy the API definition proto file from the other service into the `proto` directory but remove all `kalix.service` option blocks as well as all other Kalix annotations and the `import "kalix/annotations.proto"` from it.

This is how the counter descriptor looks with all annotations removed:

[source,protobuf,indent=0]
.proto/com/example/counter_api.proto
----
include::example$js-doc-snippets/proto/com/example/counter_api.proto[tag=other-service-api]
----

The proto-js tool will now generate a client for the service in `lib/generated/proto.js` when we compile the project.

Creating an instance of the generated client is done through the `.clients` object on the action.
In our delegating service implementation:

[source,javascript,indent=0]
.src/delegatingservice.js
----
include::example$js-doc-snippets/src/delegatingservice.js[tag=delegating-action]
----
<1> Include the `proto` file of the other service in the action service descriptors.
<2> Create the client using the provided creators to get async methods. Defaults to a cleartext connection as TLS is handled transparently for us.
<3> Use the name that the other Kalix service was deployed as, in this case `counter`.
<4> We can now call the various methods on the other service with their method names directly on the client. The calls return promises so we can use `await/async` to interact with them.

NOTE: The client can only be created once the service has been started by Kalix, for example triggered by a call, not from the constructor.

== External gRPC services

Calling a Kalix service in another project, or an arbitrary external gRPC service is done the same way as described above, with the difference that it will use the full public hostname of the service and TLS/HTTPS to encrypt the connection.

[source,javascript,indent=0]
.src/main/java/com/example/delegatingservice.js
----
include::example$js-doc-snippets/src/delegatingservice.js[tag=public-grpc]
----
<1> Import `grpc-js`, to provide credentials when creating the client.
<2> Create the client using the provided creators to get async methods.
<3> Use the full public hostname of the service.
<4> Enable TLS/HTTPS to encrypt the connection.
