docs/src/modules/javascript/pages/eventsourced.adoc, before:

= Implementing Event Sourced Entities in JavaScript

include::ROOT:partial$include.adoc[]
include::partial$eventsourced.adoc[]

== Persistence types and serialization

Event Sourced Entities persist events and snapshots in the journal, so Akka Serverless must serialize them.  Akka Serverless will automatically detect if an emitted event or snapshot is a `protobuf` type, and serialize it using `protobufjs`. However, as a JavaScript developer, you may find it more natural to use JSON. xref:javascript:serialization.adoc[] describes how to do that. See the https://www.npmjs.com/package/protobufjs[protobuf documentation{tab-icon}, window="new"] for more information on `protobufjs`.

While `protobuf` is the recommended format for persisting events, we recommend that you do not persist your service's `protobuf` messages, rather, you should create new messages, even if they are identical. While this may introduce some overhead in converting from one type to the other, it will allow the service's public interface to evolve independently from its data storage format, which should be private.

The following shows an example shopping cart definition in a `domain.proto` file:

[source,proto,indent=0]
----
include::example$domain.proto[]
----

In this file, the `Cart` message represents the state snapshot, while `ItemAdded` and `ItemRemoved` are events. Note the event names are in past tense--events are facts, indisputable things that happened in the past. A fact never becomes false: after an item has been added to a shopping cart, it never becomes untrue that that item was added to the cart. It can be removed, but that doesn't change the fact that it was added, it only changes the current state of the cart. The names of events should always be in past tense to reflect the indisputable fact that they represent.

== Creating an entity

Create an Event Sourced Entity with the link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.html[EventSourcedEntity{tab-icon}, window="new"] class.

ifdef::todo[TODO: update with new SDK names.]

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=entity-class]
----

.Example details:
****
* The example passes in the `protobuf` files that contain the service and the domain protocols: `shoppingcart.proto` and `domain.proto`. Akka Serverless will load and read these `protobuf` files. The domain event and snapshot definitions in `domain.proto` allow Akka Serverless to deserialize these messages when it receives them.

* The example defines the fully qualified name of the service the Event Sourced Entity implements, `example.shoppingcart.ShoppingCartService` and specifies options:

** Akka Serverless uses the `persistenceId` to namespace events in the journal.

** The `snapshotEvery` parameter controls how often Akka Serverless takes snapshots, so that the entity doesn't need to be recovered from the whole journal each time it's loaded. If left unset, it defaults to every 100 events. Setting it to a negative number disables snapshots. Typically, the default works well, we only recommend changing it if you have specific data from performance tests to justify a change.
****

== Using protobuf types

When you pass an event or snapshot to persist, Akka Serverless needs to know how to serialize it. Simply passing a regular object does not provide enough information to know how `protobuf` should serialize the objects. To emit an event or snapshot, you first must lookup the `protobuf` types, and then use the `create` method to create them.

The `EventSourced` class provides a helper method called link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.html#lookupType[`lookupType`{tab-icon}, window="new"]. So before implementing, we'll use `lookupType` to get these types to use later.

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=lookup-type]
----

== Initial state

When there are no snapshots persisted for an entity (such as when the entity is first created), the entity needs to have an initial state. Note that Event Sourced Entities are not explicitly created, they are implicitly created when a command arrives for them. And, nothing is persisted until an event is created for that Entity. So, if user "X" opens their shopping cart for the first time, an Entity will be created for them, with no events in the log. It will just be in the initial state.

To create the initial state, we set the link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.html#initial[`initial`{tab-icon}, window="new"] callback. This takes the id of the entity being created, and returns a new empty state, in this case, an empty shopping cart:

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=initial]
----

Note the use of `Cart.create()`, this creates a `protobuf` message using the `Cart` `protobuf` message type that we looked up earlier.

== Behavior

Now we need to define the behavior for our entity. The behavior consists of two parts, https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/akka-serverless/reference/glossary.html#command_handler[_command handlers_], and https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/akka-serverless/reference/glossary.html#event_handler[_event handlers_].

=== Command handlers

A link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.html#~commandHandler[command handler{tab-icon}, window="new"] is a function that takes a command, the current state, and an link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.EventSourcedEntityCommandContext.html[`EventSourcedEntityCommandContext`{tab-icon}, window="new"]. It implements a service call on the Entity's gRPC interface.

The command is the input message type for the gRPC service call. For example, the `GetCart` service call has an input type of `GetShoppingCart`, while the `AddItem` service call has an input type of `AddLineItem`. The command will be an object that matches the structure of these protobuf types.

The command handler must return a message of the same type as the output type of the gRPC service call, in the case of our `GetCart` command, this must be a `Cart` message. Note that unlike for the state and events, this message does not need to be created using a looked up protobuf message type--Akka Serverless already knows the output type of the gRPC service call and so can infer it. It only has to be a plain JavaScript object that matches the structure of the protobuf type.

The following shows the implementation of the `GetCart` command handler. This command handler is a read-only command handler, it doesn't emit any events, it just returns some state:

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=get-cart]
----

=== Emitting events from commands

Commands that modify the state MUST do so by emitting events.

WARNING: The **only** way a command handler may modify its state is by emitting an event. Any modifications made directly to the state from the command handler will not be persisted, and will be lost as soon as the command handler finishes executing.

A command handler may emit an event by using the link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.EventSourcedEntityCommandContext.html#emit[`emit`{tab-icon}, window="new"] method on the `EventSourcedEntityCommandContext`.

The following command handler example emits an event:

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=add-item]
----

This command handler also validates the command by ensuring that the quantity of items added is greater than zero. Invoking link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.EventSourcedEntityCommandContext.html#fail[`fail`{tab-icon}, window="new"] fails the command - this method throws so there's no need to explicitly throw an exception.

=== Event handlers

An link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.html#~eventHandler[event handler{tab-icon}, window="new"] is invoked at two points:

* When restoring Entities from the journal, before any commands are handled
* Each time a new event is emitted

An event handler's responsibility is to update the state of the entity according to the event. Event handlers are the only place where its safe to mutate the state of the Entity at all.

An event handler must be declared for each type of event that gets emitted. The type is defined by the protobuf message type in the case of `protobuf` events, or the `type` property on a JSON object in the case of JSON events. The mapping for these type names to functions will be discussed later, for now we'll just look at the functions.

Event handlers take the event they are handling, and the state, and must return the new state. The handler may update the existing state passed in, but it still has to return that state as its return value.

Here's an example event handler for the `ItemAdded` event:

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=item-added]
----

=== Setting the behavior

Once you have command handler and event handler functions implemented, you can set your behavior. The link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.html#~behaviorCallback[behavior callback{tab-icon}, window="new"] takes the current state of the entity, and returns an object with two properties: `commandHandlers` and `eventHandlers`. The callback may return different sets of handlers according to the current state, this will be explored more later, for now we'll just implement an entity with one set of handlers.

The behavior callback can be set by setting the link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.html#behavior[`behavior`{tab-icon}, window="new"] property on the entity:

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=behavior]
----

The command handlers are a mapping of the gRPC service call names to the command handler functions we implemented. Note the names, as in the gRPC convention for service call names, are uppercase.

The event handlers are a mapping of event names to the event handler functions that we implemented. The event names must match the type of the events that are being persisted. In the case of protobuf messages, this is either the fully qualified name of the protobuf message, or the unqualified name of the protobuf message. For JSON messages, this is the value of the `type` property in the message.

=== Multiple behaviors

In the examples above, our shopping cart entity only has one behavior. An entity may have different states, where command and event handling may differ according to the state it is currently in. While this could be implemented using if statements in the handlers, Akka Serverless also provides multiple behavior support, so that an entity can change its behavior. This multiple behavior support allows implementing entities as finite state machines.

The Entity's behavior can be changed by returning different sets of handlers from the `behavior` callback after inspecting the state. This callback is invoked each time a handler is needed, so there's no need to explicitly transition behaviors.

In the example below, we show a shopping cart that also has a checkout command. Once checked out, the shopping cart no longer accepts any commands to add or remove items, its state and therefore behavior changes:

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=multiple-behaviors]
----

== Starting the entity

You can let Akka Serverless start entities by adding the entities to an `Akka Serverless server` instance:

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=add-entity]
----

Commit message:

Update handling events 749 (#129)
Co-authored-by: Peter Vlugter <pvlugter@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/src/modules/javascript/pages/eventsourced.adoc, after:

= Implementing Event Sourced Entities in JavaScript

include::ROOT:partial$include.adoc[]
include::partial$eventsourced.adoc[]

== Persistence types and serialization

Event Sourced Entities persist events and snapshots in the journal, so Akka Serverless must serialize them.  Akka Serverless will automatically detect if an emitted event or snapshot is a `protobuf` type, and serialize it using `protobufjs`. However, as a JavaScript developer, you may find it more natural to use JSON. xref:javascript:serialization.adoc[] describes how to do that. See the https://www.npmjs.com/package/protobufjs[protobuf documentation{tab-icon}, window="new"] for more information on `protobufjs`.

While `protobuf` is the recommended format for persisting events, we recommend that you do not persist your service's `protobuf` messages, rather, you should create new messages, even if they are identical. While this may introduce some overhead in converting from one type to the other, it will allow the service's public interface to evolve independently from its data storage format, which should be private.

The following shows an example shopping cart definition in a `domain.proto` file:

[source,proto,indent=0]
----
include::example$domain.proto[]
----

In this file, the `Cart` message represents the state snapshot, while `ItemAdded` and `ItemRemoved` are events. Note the event names are in past tense--events are facts, indisputable things that happened in the past. A fact never becomes false: after an item has been added to a shopping cart, it never becomes untrue that that item was added to the cart. It can be removed, but that doesn't change the fact that it was added, it only changes the current state of the cart. The names of events should always be in past tense to reflect the indisputable fact that they represent.

== Creating an entity

Create an Event Sourced Entity with the link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.html[EventSourcedEntity{tab-icon}, window="new"] class.

ifdef::todo[TODO: update with new SDK names.]

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=entity-class]
----

.Example details:
****
* The example passes in the `protobuf` files that contain the service and the domain protocols: `shoppingcart.proto` and `domain.proto`. Akka Serverless will load and read these `protobuf` files. The domain event and snapshot definitions in `domain.proto` allow Akka Serverless to deserialize these messages when it receives them.

* The example defines the fully qualified name of the service the Event Sourced Entity implements, `example.shoppingcart.ShoppingCartService` and specifies options:

** Akka Serverless uses the `persistenceId` to namespace events in the journal.

** The `snapshotEvery` parameter controls how often Akka Serverless takes snapshots, so that the entity doesn't need to be recovered from the whole journal each time it's loaded. If left unset, it defaults to every 100 events. Setting it to a negative number disables snapshots. Typically, the default works well, we only recommend changing it if you have specific data from performance tests to justify a change.
****

== Using protobuf types

When you pass an event or snapshot to persist, Akka Serverless needs to know how to serialize it. Simply passing a regular object does not provide enough information to know how `protobuf` should serialize the objects. To emit an event or snapshot, you first must lookup the `protobuf` types, and then use the `create` method to create them.

The `EventSourced` class provides a helper method called link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.html#lookupType[`lookupType`{tab-icon}, window="new"]. So before implementing, we'll use `lookupType` to get these types to use later.

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=lookup-type]
----

== Initial state

When there are no snapshots persisted for an entity (such as when the entity is first created), the entity needs to have an initial state. Note that Event Sourced Entities are not explicitly created, they are implicitly created when a command arrives for them. And, nothing is persisted until an event is created for that Entity. So, if user "X" opens their shopping cart for the first time, an Entity will be created for them, with no events in the log. It will just be in the initial state.

To create the initial state, we set the link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.html#initial[`initial`{tab-icon}, window="new"] callback. This takes the id of the entity being created, and returns a new empty state, in this case, an empty shopping cart:

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=initial]
----

Note the use of `Cart.create()`, this creates a `protobuf` message using the `Cart` `protobuf` message type that we looked up earlier.

== Behavior

Now we need to define the behavior for our entity. The behavior consists of two parts, https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/akka-serverless/reference/glossary.html#command_handler[_command handlers_], and https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/akka-serverless/reference/glossary.html#event_handler[_event handlers_].

=== Command handlers

A link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.html#~commandHandler[command handler{tab-icon}, window="new"] is a function that takes a command, the current state, and an link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.EventSourcedEntityCommandContext.html[`EventSourcedEntityCommandContext`{tab-icon}, window="new"]. It implements a service call on the Entity's gRPC interface.

The command is the input message type for the gRPC service call. For example, the `GetCart` service call has an input type of `GetShoppingCart`, while the `AddItem` service call has an input type of `AddLineItem`. The command will be an object that matches the structure of these protobuf types.

The command handler must return a message of the same type as the output type of the gRPC service call, in the case of our `GetCart` command, this must be a `Cart` message. Note that unlike for the state and events, this message does not need to be created using a looked up protobuf message type--Akka Serverless already knows the output type of the gRPC service call and so can infer it. It only has to be a plain JavaScript object that matches the structure of the protobuf type.

The following shows the implementation of the `GetCart` command handler. This command handler is a read-only command handler, it doesn't emit any events, it just returns some state:

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=get-cart]
----

=== Emitting events from commands

Commands that modify the state MUST do so by emitting events.

WARNING: The **only** way a command handler may modify its state is by emitting an event. Any modifications made directly to the state from the command handler will not be persisted, and will be lost as soon as the command handler finishes executing.

A command handler may emit an event by using the link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.EventSourcedEntityCommandContext.html#emit[`emit`{tab-icon}, window="new"] method on the `EventSourcedEntityCommandContext`.

The following command handler example emits an event:

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=add-item]
----

This command handler also validates the command by ensuring that the quantity of items added is greater than zero. Invoking link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.EventSourcedEntityCommandContext.html#fail[`fail`{tab-icon}, window="new"] fails the command - this method throws so there's no need to explicitly throw an exception.

=== Event handlers

An link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.html#~eventHandler[event handler{tab-icon}, window="new"] is invoked at two points:

* When restoring Entities from the journal, before any commands are handled
* Each time a new event is emitted

An event handler's responsibility is to update the state of the entity according to the event. Event handlers are the only place where its safe to mutate the state of an Entity.

An event handler must be declared for each type of event that gets emitted. The type is defined by the protobuf message type in the case of `protobuf` events, or the `type` property on a JSON object in the case of JSON events. The mapping for these type names to functions will be discussed later, for now we'll just look at the functions.

Event handlers take the event they are handling, and the state, and must return the new state. The handler may update the existing state passed in, but it still has to return that state as its return value. The command handler accumulates the emitted events and applies the events to the managed state after command processing.

Here's an example event handler for the `ItemAdded` event:

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=item-added]
----

=== Setting the behavior

Once you have command handler and event handler functions implemented, you can set your behavior. The link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.html#~behaviorCallback[behavior callback{tab-icon}, window="new"] takes the current state of the entity, and returns an object with two properties: `commandHandlers` and `eventHandlers`. The callback may return different sets of handlers according to the current state, this will be explored more later, for now we'll just implement an entity with one set of handlers.

The behavior callback can be set by setting the link:{attachmentsdir}/api/module-akkaserverless.EventSourcedEntity.html#behavior[`behavior`{tab-icon}, window="new"] property on the entity:

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=behavior]
----

The command handlers are a mapping of the gRPC service call names to the command handler functions we implemented. Note the names, as in the gRPC convention for service call names, are uppercase.

The event handlers are a mapping of event names to the event handler functions that we implemented. The event names must match the type of the events that are being persisted. In the case of protobuf messages, this is either the fully qualified name of the protobuf message, or the unqualified name of the protobuf message. For JSON messages, this is the value of the `type` property in the message.

=== Multiple behaviors

In the examples above, our shopping cart entity only has one behavior. An entity may have different states, where command and event handling may differ according to the state it is currently in. While this could be implemented using if statements in the handlers, Akka Serverless also provides multiple behavior support, so that an entity can change its behavior. This multiple behavior support allows implementing entities as finite state machines.

The Entity's behavior can be changed by returning different sets of handlers from the `behavior` callback after inspecting the state. This callback is invoked each time a handler is needed, so there's no need to explicitly transition behaviors.

In the example below, we show a shopping cart that also has a checkout command. Once checked out, the shopping cart no longer accepts any commands to add or remove items, its state and therefore behavior changes:

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=multiple-behaviors]
----

== Starting the entity

You can let Akka Serverless start entities by adding the entities to an `Akka Serverless server` instance:

[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$test/eventsourced/shoppingcart.js[tag=add-entity]
----
