docs/src/modules/javascript/pages/running-locally.adoc, before:

= Run a service locally

include::ROOT:partial$include.adoc[]

Running a service locally is helpful to test and debug. The following sections provide commands for starting and stopping a single service locally.

== Prerequisites

In order to run your service locally, you'll need to have the following prerequisites:

* Docker {minimum_docker_version} or higher
* Access to the `gcr.io/kalix-public` container registry

[TIP]
====
The samples provided with the Kalix SDKs all have `docker-compose` files preconfigured to run your service locally. They also contain the configuration to start a local Google Pub/Sub emulator that the Kalix proxy will connect to when you make use of topic-based Eventing in your service.
====

== Starting your service

To start the proxy, run the following command from the directory containing the `docker-compose.yml` file:

. Start the proxy
+
--
[source, command line]
----
docker compose up
----
--
+
. Start the service
+
--
[source, command line]
----
npm start
----
--


[NOTE]
====
By default this command will start your containers in foreground mode. This means the terminal window will show all output from all containers. To start in "detached" mode, add the `-d` or `--detach` flag to the docker compose commands.
====

== Invoking your service

After you start the service it will accept invocations on `localhost:9000`. You can use cURL to invoke your service. For services developed using a protocol-first SDK, you can also use gRPCurl.

=== Using cURL

[.tabset]
Linux or macOS::
+
--
[source,command line]
----
curl \
  -XPOST \ <1>
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \ <2>
  -d '{"counterId": "foo"}' \ <3>
  localhost:9000/com.example.CounterService/GetCurrentCounter <4>
----
--
Windows 10+::
+
--
[source,command line]
----
curl ^
  -XPOST ^ <1>
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" ^ <2>
  -d '{"counterId": "foo"}' ^ <3>
  localhost:9000/com.example.CounterService/GetCurrentCounter <4>
----
--

<1> The XPOST flag indicates cURL will send a POST request
<2> The content type for this request is set to `application/json`
<3> The message payload in JSON format
<4> The URL with the RPC procedure name which is deduced from the protobuf definition of the component you're calling.

=== Using gRPCurl

For protocol-first SDKs, inspect your services with the gRPC `list` and `describe` commands:

[source,command line]
----
grpcurl -plaintext localhost:9000 list

grpcurl -plaintext localhost:9000 describe com.example.CounterService
----

[TIP]
====
Be sure to use gRPCurl `1.8.7` (or above) since previous versions have been found to have some issues while describing an endpoint.
====

Get a current value from the `CounterService`:
[.tabset]
Linux or macOS::
+
--
[source,command line]
----
grpcurl \
  -d '{"counterId": "foo"}' \ <1>
  -plaintext localhost:9000 \ <2>
  com.example.CounterService/GetCurrentCounter <3>
----
--
Windows 10+::
+
--
[source,command line]
----
grpcurl ^
  -d '{"counterId": "foo"}' ^ <1>
  -plaintext localhost:9000 ^ <2>
  com.example.CounterService/GetCurrentCounter <3>
----
--

<1> The message payload in JSON format with `-d`
<2> The address of the proxy (using `plaintext` instead of TLS)
<3> The RPC procedure name which is deduced from the protobuf definition of the component you're calling.


== Shut down the proxy

To shut down the proxy, which removes all data kept in memory, run the command below:

[source, command line]
----
docker stop kalix-proxy
----

To delete the proxy container, run

[source, command line]
----
docker rm kalix-proxy
----

== Running multiple services

You can run multiple services locally at the same time. To do that:

. Each service will need the user function to run on its own port.
. Each service will need its own proxy container and each proxy container will need its own port.

See below how to do such configuration.

=== Run user function on a custom port

When using the defaults, the Kalix proxy connects to the user function on port 8080. However, if you're looking to have 2 services running at the same time, the second service will need to be run at a different port (e.g. 8081).

--
[source,command line]
----
export PORT=8081 <1>
npm start
----
<1> Setting this user function to run on port `8081`.
--


=== Run Kalix Proxy on a custom port

To update the docker compose file to run multiple proxy instances, add the snippet below:

[source, yaml]
----
kalix-runtime: <1>
  image: gcr.io/kalix-public/kalix-runtime:latest
  ports:
    - "900x:900x" <2>
  JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS: >
    -Dkalix.proxy.http-port=900x <2>
    -Dconfig.resource=dev-mode.conf
    -Dlogback.configurationFile=logback-dev-mode.xml
  environment:
    USER_FUNCTION_HOST: ${USER_FUNCTION_HOST:-host.docker.internal}
    USER_FUNCTION_PORT: <3>
----

<1> This name has to be unique in your docker compose file (docker compose uses this name to uniquely identify the running container).
<2> The host port ("900x") in the port mapping must be unique for each proxy instance. Note that the internal proxy port should also be changed hence the extra `-Dkalix.proxy.http-port=900x` option.
<3> The user function port must be unique for each service you start. See the previous section for how to define this.

Commit message:

Use Runtime in docs and samples (#526)
* Use Runtime in documentation
* Use Runtime in samples

docs/src/modules/javascript/pages/running-locally.adoc, after:

= Run a service locally

include::ROOT:partial$include.adoc[]

Running a service locally is helpful to test and debug. The following sections provide commands for starting and stopping a single service locally.

== Prerequisites

In order to run your service locally, you'll need to have the following prerequisites:

* Docker {minimum_docker_version} or higher
* Access to the `gcr.io/kalix-public` container registry

[TIP]
====
The samples provided with the Kalix SDKs all have `docker-compose` files preconfigured to run your service locally. They also contain the configuration to start a local Google Pub/Sub emulator that the Kalix Runtime will connect to when you make use of topic-based Eventing in your service.
====

== Starting your service

To start the Kalix Runtime, run the following command from the directory containing the `docker-compose.yml` file:

. Start the Kalix Runtime
+
--
[source, command line]
----
docker compose up
----
--
+
. Start the service
+
--
[source, command line]
----
npm start
----
--


[NOTE]
====
By default, this command will start your containers in foreground mode. This means the terminal window will show all output from all containers. To start in "detached" mode, add the `-d` or `--detach` flag to the docker compose commands.
====

== Invoking your service

After you start the service it will accept invocations on `localhost:9000`. You can use cURL to invoke your service. For services developed using a protocol-first SDK, you can also use gRPCurl.

=== Using cURL

[.tabset]
Linux or macOS::
+
--
[source,command line]
----
curl \
  -XPOST \ <1>
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \ <2>
  -d '{"counterId": "foo"}' \ <3>
  localhost:9000/com.example.CounterService/GetCurrentCounter <4>
----
--
Windows 10+::
+
--
[source,command line]
----
curl ^
  -XPOST ^ <1>
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" ^ <2>
  -d '{"counterId": "foo"}' ^ <3>
  localhost:9000/com.example.CounterService/GetCurrentCounter <4>
----
--

<1> The XPOST flag indicates cURL will send a POST request
<2> The content type for this request is set to `application/json`
<3> The message payload in JSON format
<4> The URL with the RPC procedure name which is deduced from the protobuf definition of the component you're calling.

=== Using gRPCurl

For protocol-first SDKs, inspect your services with the gRPC `list` and `describe` commands:

[source,command line]
----
grpcurl -plaintext localhost:9000 list

grpcurl -plaintext localhost:9000 describe com.example.CounterService
----

[TIP]
====
Be sure to use gRPCurl `1.8.7` (or above) since previous versions have been found to have some issues while describing an endpoint.
====

Get a current value from the `CounterService`:
[.tabset]
Linux or macOS::
+
--
[source,command line]
----
grpcurl \
  -d '{"counterId": "foo"}' \ <1>
  -plaintext localhost:9000 \ <2>
  com.example.CounterService/GetCurrentCounter <3>
----
--
Windows 10+::
+
--
[source,command line]
----
grpcurl ^
  -d '{"counterId": "foo"}' ^ <1>
  -plaintext localhost:9000 ^ <2>
  com.example.CounterService/GetCurrentCounter <3>
----
--

<1> The message payload in JSON format with `-d`
<2> The address of the Kalix Runtime (using `plaintext` instead of TLS)
<3> The RPC procedure name which is deduced from the protobuf definition of the component you're calling.


== Shut down the Runtime

To shut down the Kalix Runtime, which removes all the data kept in memory, run the command below:

[source, command line]
----
docker stop kalix-runtime
----

To delete the Kalix Runtime container, run

[source, command line]
----
docker rm kalix-runtime
----

== Running multiple services

You can run multiple services locally at the same time. To do that:

. Each service will need the user function to run on its own port.
. Each service will need its own Kalix Runtime container and each Runtime container will need its own port.

See below how to do such configuration.

=== Run user function on a custom port

When using the defaults, the Kalix Runtime connects to the user function on port 8080. However, if you're looking to have 2 services running at the same time, the second service will need to be run at a different port (e.g. 8081).

--
[source,command line]
----
export PORT=8081 <1>
npm start
----
<1> Setting this user function to run on port `8081`.
--


=== Run the Kalix Runtime on a custom port

To update the docker compose file to run multiple Kalix Runtime instances, add the snippet below:

[source, yaml]
----
kalix-runtime: <1>
  image: gcr.io/kalix-public/kalix-runtime:latest
  ports:
    - "900x:900x" <2>
  JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS: >
    -Dkalix.proxy.http-port=900x <2>
    -Dconfig.resource=dev-mode.conf
    -Dlogback.configurationFile=logback-dev-mode.xml
  environment:
    USER_FUNCTION_HOST: ${USER_FUNCTION_HOST:-host.docker.internal}
    USER_FUNCTION_PORT: <3>
----

<1> This name has to be unique in your docker compose file (docker compose uses this name to uniquely identify the running container).
<2> The host port ("900x") in the port mapping must be unique for each Runtime instance. Note that the internal Runtime port should also be changed hence the extra `-Dkalix.proxy.http-port=900x` option.
<3> The user function port must be unique for each service you start. See the previous section for how to define this.
