# Shopping Cart example (using a Replicated Entity)

## Designing

While designing your service it is useful to read [designing services](https://docs.kalix.io/designing/index.html)

## Developing

This project has a bare-bones skeleton service ready to go, but to adapt and extend it, reading up on [developing services](https://docs.kalix.io/developing/index.html), especially the [JavaScript section](https://docs.kalix.io/javascript/index.html), may be useful.

## Prerequisites

No additional tooling is required for local development. To build and deploy to a cluster:

- Docker; see https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/
- Kalix CLI (`kalix`); see https://docs.kalix.io/kalix/install-kalix.html

## Building

To build, at a minimum you need to generate and process sources, particularly when using an IDE.
A convenience is compile your project:

```shell
npm install
npm run build
```

## Testing

Basic skeleton unit tests for each method in each service will be generated by the `build` phase, but these will need to be fleshed out with assertions as behavior is implemented.
Mocha is the testing framework employed, and Chai is used for assertions. To execute the tests:

```shell
npm run test
```

These tests leverage the mock entity classes provided by `@kalix-io/testkit`. These classes mimic the minimal required machinery to execute commands and handle events against a single entity for simple unit testing. Integration tests, which run a local Kalix development environment, can also be written using `@kalix-io/testkit`.

## Running Locally

In order to run your application locally, you must run the Kalix Runtime. The included `docker-compose` file
contains the configuration required to run the Runtime for a locally running application. It also contains the
configuration to start a local Google Pub/Sub emulator that the Kalix Runtime will connect to. To start the
Runtime, run the following command from this directory:

```shell
docker compose up
```

> On Linux this requires Docker 20.10 or later (https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/40007),
> or for a `USER_FUNCTION_HOST` environment variable to be set manually.

To start the application locally, use the following commands:

> Be sure to have performed `npm install` for the first time!

```shell
npm run build && npm run start
```

With both the Kalix Runtime and your application running, any defined endpoints should be available at `http://localhost:9000`. In addition to the defined gRPC interface, each method has a corresponding HTTP endpoint. Unless configured otherwise (see [Transcoding HTTP](https://docs.kalix.io/javascript/proto.html#_transcoding_http)), this endpoint accepts POST requests at the path `/[package].[entity name]/[method]`. For example, using `curl`:

```shell
curl -XPOST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"product_id": "kalix-tshirt", "name": "Kalix T-shirt", "quantity": 3}' localhost:9000/cart/cart1/items/add
```

Send an `AddItem` command:

```shell
grpcurl --plaintext -d '{"cart_id": "cart1", "product_id": "kalix-tshirt", "name": "Kalix T-shirt", "quantity": 3}' localhost:9000 com.example.shoppingcart.ShoppingCartService/AddItem
```

Send a `GetCart` command:

```shell
grpcurl --plaintext -d '{"cart_id": "cart1"}' localhost:9000 com.example.shoppingcart.ShoppingCartService/GetCart
```

Send a `RemoveItem` command:

```shell
grpcurl --plaintext -d '{"cart_id": "cart1", "product_id": "kalix-tshirt", "name": "Kalix T-shirt"}' localhost:9000 com.example.shoppingcart.ShoppingCartService/RemoveItem
```

Send a `RemoveCart` command:

```shell
grpcurl --plaintext -d '{"cart_id": "cart1"}' localhost:9000 com.example.shoppingcart.ShoppingCartService/RemoveCart
```

## Deploying

To deploy your service, install the `kalix` CLI as documented in [Setting up a local development
environment](https://docs.kalix.io/getting-started/set-up-development-env.html) and
configure a Docker Registry to upload your docker image to.

You will need to update the `config.dockerImage` property in the `package.json` and refer to [Configuring
registries](https://docs.kalix.io/projects/container-registries.html) for more
information on how to make your docker image available to Kalix.

Finally you can or use the [Kalix Console](https://console.kalix.io) to create a project and then
deploy your service into the project either by using `npm run deploy`, through the `kalix` CLI or via the web
interface. When using `npm run deploy`, npm will also conveniently package and publish your docker image prior to
deployment.
