samples/ts/ts-valueentity-counter/README.md, before:

# 

## Designing

While designing your service it is useful to read [designing services](https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/akka-serverless/designing/index.html)

## Developing

This project has a functioning service ready to adapt and
extend it it may be useful to read up on [developing services](https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/akka-serverless/developing/index.html)
and in particular the [JavaScript section](https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/akka-serverless/javascript/index.html)

## Prerequisites

No additional tooling is required for local development. To build and deploy to a cluster:

- Docker; see https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/
- Akka Serverless CLI (`akkasls`); see https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/akka-serverless/getting-started/set-up-development-env.html#_akka_serverless_cli

## Building

To build, at a minimum you need to generate and process sources, particularly when using an IDE.
A convenience is compile your project:

```
npm install
npm run build
```

## Testing

Basic skeleton unit tests for each method in each service will be generated by the `build` phase, but these will need to be fleshed out with assertions as behavior is implemented.
Mocha is the testing framework employed, and Chai is used for assertions. To execute the tests:

```
npm run test
```

These tests leverage the mock event-sourced entity and value-entity classes provided by `testkit.ts`. These classes mimic the minimal required machinery to execute commands and handle events against a single entity for simple unit testing.

## Integration Test

The integration tests are manually written and can be executed by running:

```
npm run integration-test
```

## Running Locally

In order to run your application locally, you must run the Akka Serverless proxy. The included `docker-compose` file contains the configuration required to run the proxy for a locally running application.
It also contains the configuration to start a local Google Pub/Sub emulator that the Akka Serverless proxy will connect to.
To start the proxy, run the following command from this directory:

```
docker-compose up
```

To start the application locally, use the following commands:

> Be sure to have performed `npm install` for the first time!

```
npm run build && npm run start
```

With both the proxy and your application running, any defined endpoints should be available at `http://localhost:9000`. In addition to the defined gRPC interface, each method has a corresponding HTTP endpoint. Unless configured otherwise (see [Transcoding HTTP](https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/akka-serverless/javascript/proto.html#_transcoding_http)), this endpoint accepts POST requests at the path `/[package].[entity name]/[method]`. For example, using `curl`:

```
> curl -XPOST -H "Content-Type: application/json" localhost:9000/com.example.MyServiceEntity/GetValue -d '{"entityId": "foo"}'
The command handler for `GetValue` is not implemented, yet
```

For example, given [`grpcurl`](https://github.com/fullstorydev/grpcurl):

```
> grpcurl -plaintext -d '{"entityId": "foo"}' localhost:9000 com.example.MyServiceEntity/GetValue
ERROR:
  Code: Unknown
  Message: The command handler for `GetValue` is not implemented, yet
```

> Note: The failure is to be expected if you have not yet provided an implementation of `GetValue` in
> your entity.

## Deploying

To deploy your service, install the `akkasls` CLI as documented in
[Setting up a local development environment](https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/akka-serverless/getting-started/set-up-development-env.html)
and configure a Docker Registry to upload your docker image to.

You will need to update the `akkasls.dockerImage` property in the `pom.xml` and refer to
[Configuring registries](https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/akka-serverless/projects/container-registries.html)
for more information on how to make your docker image available to Akka Serverless.

Finally you can or use the [Akka Serverless Console](https://console.akkaserverless.com)
to create a project and then deploy your service into the project either by using `npm run deploy`,
through the `akkasls` CLI or via the web interface. When using `npm run deploy`, NPM will also
conveniently package and publish your docker image prior to deployment.

Commit message:

rename: Kalix rename first step (#268)
* SDK API changes for the new name
* Docs updated with API changes
* Rename the NPM module
* Rename in codegen and scripts/tools
* Updating links (to not yet existing URIs)
* Split up tests into smaller run-steps and use a locally built kalix-scripts
* Disable lint check for ts samples for now, failing without any code changes so already was broken (Could not get the lint autoformat to to actually run anywhere to reformat)

samples/ts/ts-valueentity-counter/README.md, after:

# 

## Designing

While designing your service it is useful to read [designing services](https://docs.kalix.io/designing/index.html)

## Developing

This project has a functioning service ready to adapt and
extend it it may be useful to read up on [developing services](https://docs.kalix.io/developing/index.html)
and in particular the [JavaScript section](https://docs.kalix.io/javascript/index.html)

## Prerequisites

No additional tooling is required for local development. To build and deploy to a cluster:

- Docker; see https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/
- Kalix CLI (`akkasls`); see https://docs.kalix.io/getting-started/set-up-development-env.html#_akka_serverless_cli

## Building

To build, at a minimum you need to generate and process sources, particularly when using an IDE.
A convenience is compile your project:

```
npm install
npm run build
```

## Testing

Basic skeleton unit tests for each method in each service will be generated by the `build` phase, but these will need to be fleshed out with assertions as behavior is implemented.
Mocha is the testing framework employed, and Chai is used for assertions. To execute the tests:

```
npm run test
```

These tests leverage the mock event-sourced entity and value-entity classes provided by `testkit.ts`. These classes mimic the minimal required machinery to execute commands and handle events against a single entity for simple unit testing.

## Integration Test

The integration tests are manually written and can be executed by running:

```
npm run integration-test
```

## Running Locally

In order to run your application locally, you must run the Kalix proxy. The included `docker-compose` file contains the configuration required to run the proxy for a locally running application.
It also contains the configuration to start a local Google Pub/Sub emulator that the Kalix proxy will connect to.
To start the proxy, run the following command from this directory:

```
docker-compose up
```

To start the application locally, use the following commands:

> Be sure to have performed `npm install` for the first time!

```
npm run build && npm run start
```

With both the proxy and your application running, any defined endpoints should be available at `http://localhost:9000`. In addition to the defined gRPC interface, each method has a corresponding HTTP endpoint. Unless configured otherwise (see [Transcoding HTTP](https://docs.kalix.io/javascript/proto.html#_transcoding_http)), this endpoint accepts POST requests at the path `/[package].[entity name]/[method]`. For example, using `curl`:

```
> curl -XPOST -H "Content-Type: application/json" localhost:9000/com.example.MyServiceEntity/GetValue -d '{"entityId": "foo"}'
The command handler for `GetValue` is not implemented, yet
```

For example, given [`grpcurl`](https://github.com/fullstorydev/grpcurl):

```
> grpcurl -plaintext -d '{"entityId": "foo"}' localhost:9000 com.example.MyServiceEntity/GetValue
ERROR:
  Code: Unknown
  Message: The command handler for `GetValue` is not implemented, yet
```

> Note: The failure is to be expected if you have not yet provided an implementation of `GetValue` in
> your entity.

## Deploying

To deploy your service, install the `akkasls` CLI as documented in
[Setting up a local development environment](https://docs.kalix.io/getting-started/set-up-development-env.html)
and configure a Docker Registry to upload your docker image to.

You will need to update the `akkasls.dockerImage` property in the `pom.xml` and refer to
[Configuring registries](https://docs.kalix.io/projects/container-registries.html)
for more information on how to make your docker image available to Kalix.

Finally you can or use the [Kalix Console](https://console.kalix.io)
to create a project and then deploy your service into the project either by using `npm run deploy`,
through the `akkasls` CLI or via the web interface. When using `npm run deploy`, NPM will also
conveniently package and publish your docker image prior to deployment.
