docs/src/modules/javascript/partials/topic-eventing.adoc, before:

include::ROOT:partial$include.adoc[]

Akka Serverless integrates with https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/overview[Google Cloud Pub/Sub] to enable asynchronous messaging. Consumers of published messages are guaranteed to receive them at least once. This means that receivers must be able to handle duplicate messages. If you are new to the world of Pub/Sub, many online resources provide tips on handling duplicate messages.

This page describes how to subscribe to published events, but you also need to configure Google Cloud Pub/Sub access for your Akka Serverless project as explained in https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/akka-serverless/projects/message-brokers.html[How to configure a broker].

NOTE: It is your responsibility to create the topics in Google Cloud Pub/Sub before configuring publishers or subscribers.

== Subscribing to a topic's messages

To receive messages from a Pub/Sub topic, annotate a service method in the Protobuf service definition with the `(akkaserverless.method).eventing` annotation. Specify the topic name in the `in` section of the annotation:

[source,protobuf,indent=0]
----
include::example$eventing-shopping-cart/proto/cart/shopping_cart_analytics.proto[tag=subscribing]
----
<1> annotate the Protobuf rpc method with `(akkaserverless.method).eventing`
<2> use `in` and `topic` to subscribe to a topic

There is nothing specific required in the implementation of `ProcessAdded`. The implementation will in most cases be an Action and forward a converted message to a different component (eg. an Event Sourced Entity).

== Receiving JSON messages

Your Akka Serverless service may subscribe to topics that use messages in JSON format. The messages must have the `Content-Type` attribute stating `application/json`.

The Protobuf rpc method receiving these JSON messages must be set up to receive `Any`.

[source,protobuf,indent=0]
----
syntax = "proto3";

import "google/protobuf/empty.proto";
import "google/protobuf/any.proto";
import "akkaserverless/annotations.proto";

package shopping.cart.actions;

service ShoppingCartTopicService {
    rpc JsonFromTopic(google.protobuf.Any) returns (google.protobuf.Empty) {
        option (akkaserverless.method).eventing.in = {
            topic:  "shopping-cart-json"
        };
    }
}
----

== Publishing JSON messages to a topic

By default when publishig a message to a topic, the protobuf message is serialized to bytes and published with the `content-type`/`ce-datacontenttype` `application/protobuf`, and will also contain the metadata entry `ce-type` specifying the specific protobuf message type.

This is convenient when the consumer is another Akka Serverless service that can handle protobuf messages.

In many cases the consumer may be an external service though, and in such a case another serialization format for the messages can make sense. For such a use case the Akka Serverless Javascript SDK supports emitting JSON messages.

To publish JSON messages to a topic, mark the return type of the message as `google.protobuf.Any`. The object returned with `replies.message()` will be serialized to string format and published to the topic with content type `Content-Type` attribute stating `application/json`.

[source,protobuf,indent=0]
----
include::example$js-doc-snippets/proto/com/example/json/json_api.proto[tag=service]
----
<1> return `google.protobuf.Any` from the method
<2> annotate the Protobuf rpc method with `(akkaserverless.method).eventing`
<3> use `out` and `topic` to publish to a topic

In the service implementation, return an arbitrary object, it will be serialized to JSON for the topic:
[source,javascript,indent=0]
----
include::example$js-doc-snippets/src/myservice.js[tag=produce]
----

Commit message:

rename: Kalix rename first step (#268)
* SDK API changes for the new name
* Docs updated with API changes
* Rename the NPM module
* Rename in codegen and scripts/tools
* Updating links (to not yet existing URIs)
* Split up tests into smaller run-steps and use a locally built kalix-scripts
* Disable lint check for ts samples for now, failing without any code changes so already was broken (Could not get the lint autoformat to to actually run anywhere to reformat)

docs/src/modules/javascript/partials/topic-eventing.adoc, after:

include::ROOT:partial$include.adoc[]

Kalix integrates with https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/overview[Google Cloud Pub/Sub] to enable asynchronous messaging. Consumers of published messages are guaranteed to receive them at least once. This means that receivers must be able to handle duplicate messages. If you are new to the world of Pub/Sub, many online resources provide tips on handling duplicate messages.

This page describes how to subscribe to published events, but you also need to configure Google Cloud Pub/Sub access for your Kalix project as explained in https://docs.kalix.io/projects/message-brokers.html[How to configure a broker].

NOTE: It is your responsibility to create the topics in Google Cloud Pub/Sub before configuring publishers or subscribers.

== Subscribing to a topic's messages

To receive messages from a Pub/Sub topic, annotate a service method in the Protobuf service definition with the `(akkaserverless.method).eventing` annotation. Specify the topic name in the `in` section of the annotation:

[source,protobuf,indent=0]
----
include::example$eventing-shopping-cart/proto/cart/shopping_cart_analytics.proto[tag=subscribing]
----
<1> annotate the Protobuf rpc method with `(akkaserverless.method).eventing`
<2> use `in` and `topic` to subscribe to a topic

There is nothing specific required in the implementation of `ProcessAdded`. The implementation will in most cases be an Action and forward a converted message to a different component (eg. an Event Sourced Entity).

== Receiving JSON messages

Your Kalix service may subscribe to topics that use messages in JSON format. The messages must have the `Content-Type` attribute stating `application/json`.

The Protobuf rpc method receiving these JSON messages must be set up to receive `Any`.

[source,protobuf,indent=0]
----
syntax = "proto3";

import "google/protobuf/empty.proto";
import "google/protobuf/any.proto";
import "akkaserverless/annotations.proto";

package shopping.cart.actions;

service ShoppingCartTopicService {
    rpc JsonFromTopic(google.protobuf.Any) returns (google.protobuf.Empty) {
        option (akkaserverless.method).eventing.in = {
            topic:  "shopping-cart-json"
        };
    }
}
----

== Publishing JSON messages to a topic

By default when publishig a message to a topic, the protobuf message is serialized to bytes and published with the `content-type`/`ce-datacontenttype` `application/protobuf`, and will also contain the metadata entry `ce-type` specifying the specific protobuf message type.

This is convenient when the consumer is another Kalix service that can handle protobuf messages.

In many cases the consumer may be an external service though, and in such a case another serialization format for the messages can make sense. For such a use case the Kalix Javascript SDK supports emitting JSON messages.

To publish JSON messages to a topic, mark the return type of the message as `google.protobuf.Any`. The object returned with `replies.message()` will be serialized to string format and published to the topic with content type `Content-Type` attribute stating `application/json`.

[source,protobuf,indent=0]
----
include::example$js-doc-snippets/proto/com/example/json/json_api.proto[tag=service]
----
<1> return `google.protobuf.Any` from the method
<2> annotate the Protobuf rpc method with `(akkaserverless.method).eventing`
<3> use `out` and `topic` to publish to a topic

In the service implementation, return an arbitrary object, it will be serialized to JSON for the topic:
[source,javascript,indent=0]
----
include::example$js-doc-snippets/src/myservice.js[tag=produce]
----
